---
title: "iPhone Hype"
date: 2007-06-27T03:50:00Z
url: /2007/06/iphone-hype.html
draft: false
---

As we count down to the iPhone launch, the hype is reaching a feverish pitch.  There are even people discussing the <a href="http://valleywag.com/tech/apple/the-acceptable-face-of-the-iphone-272524.php">people</a> who are already in <a href="http://valleywag.com/tech/apple/first-in-line-for-the-iphone-272258.php">line</a>.<br /><br />As I <a href="http://www.ericdaugherty.com/blog/2007/05/treo-755p.html">posted earlier</a>, I'm a long time Treo user and seriously considering the 755p.  I've held off to date so far because my Treo 650 still manages to do everything I need it to, and I'm hesitant to jump on the last Treo model before the new Linux based OS debuts this fall/winter.<br /><br />So now the initial reviews are out, and <a href="http://online.wsj.com/article/SB118289311361649057.html?mod=hps_us_inside_today">Walt</a> seems to think the iPhone is pretty cool.  His assessment of the typing is impressive, especially as he is also a long time Treo user.  The lack of keyboard is one of the major drawbacks in my mind (in addition to the lack of the '5 way' button on the Treo which I do most of my navigation with.  He does point out that several tasks are more difficult (more steps) due to the lack of 'real' keys.<br /><br />He also points out the concerns around it being locked to AT&T, on a slow(er) data network.  Apparently it does not have a traditional SIM card, so you can't do the SIM card swap GSM users are so used to.  Being a long time Sprint user I can't complain about this too much but if I were used to the option I would be annoyed. <br /><br />I do have to give AT&T credit for brining out plans (including data) that seem pretty reasonable.  The base plan ($59/month) includes unlimited data and 450 rollover minutes, which I find reasonable.  It certainly could have been worse.<br /><br />Overall, I still don't think the iPhone is for me, but I do think it will find a reasonable market of users who will be fans.  It still appears to me to be an iPod/gadget first, and a business phone second, but since that was likely their goal I can hardly fault it for that.  It just isn't for me.<br /><br />However, version 2.0, that includes 3rd party apps, GPS, and a faster network (on another carrier) and I could be converted.<br /><br />Hopefully Palm will come out with something impressive this fall to keep me on board.
