---
title: "Apple, EMI, and DRM"
date: 2007-04-04T05:55:00Z
url: /2007/04/apple-emi-and-drm.html
draft: false
---

Apple <a href="http://www.engadget.com/2007/04/02/steve-jobs-and-emi-present-an-exciting-new-digital-offering/">announced</a> they are selling EMI music DRM free, for a mere $0.30 premium.<br /><br />First, I'm excited to see mass market adoption legitimate of DRM free content.  That is good news, period.<br /><br />However, I find Steve's position on DRM a bit, well, convenient.  See, for a couple of reasons Steve wants Apple to sell music without DRM.  However, he's also on Disney's board, hence the following question during the Q&A:<br /><br /><strong>Q:</strong> I take it then that you are going to advocate taking the DRM off of the videos you sell on iTunes. Any particular [inaudible] you could do that with the Disney company?<br /><strong>A:</strong> You know, video, uh... I knew I'd get that question today. Video is pretty different than music right now because the video industry does not distribute 90 percent of their content DRM free; never has, and so I think they are in a pretty different situation and so I wouldn't hold the two in parallel at all.<br /><br />Ya, sure Steve, they are totally different.  I don't think any one can seriously argue that Steve really BELIEVES that DRM-free content is better.  I'm also not sure it matters.<br /><br />The deal is convenient for everyone.  The labels get to sell music at a premium ($1.29 instead of $0.99), Apple gets to look good in the face of the <a href="http://news.monstersandcritics.com/business/news/article_1286303.php/EU_launches_anti-trust_probe_into_Apples_online_music_sale">EU anti-trust case</a>, and consumers get DRM free music. <br /><br />Not a perfect deal, but it's better than many of the alternatives.  Just don't believe that this deal was done for any altruistic or idealistic reasons.
