---
title: "The Upgrade Catch-22"
date: 2007-10-18T15:31:00Z
url: /2007/10/upgrade-catch-22.html
draft: false
---

I have a compulsion to upgrade.  Whenever there is new release of any software or driver that I use, I MUST upgrade.  The problem is, most of these upgrades/updates just cause problems.<br /><br />This classic situation arose last night.  Excel 2007 has been crashing recently when I used the build in scroll function of my ThinkPad T60p.  I figured it was worth downloading the most recent drivers from IBM (OK, Lenovo).  I used their auto-update tool, which of course found tons of updates to run, including the BIOS, etc.<br /><br />It all seemed to go well until after the wireless card driver was updated and I re-entered the WEP key to reconnect.  BSOD (Blue Screen of Death).  After a couple reboots to make sure it wouldn't 'work itself out', I booted into safe mode (which took forever), and disabled the wireless driver.  I then rolled back (using the nifty 'rollback button'.  This solved the BSOD but I still couldn't connect.  So I ended up downloading the newest driver again and installing, but it didn't seem to take.  So I found a more recent driver I installed earlier this year and reinstalled it.  It didn't work either.  Well it did, but it took me a while to realize I was entering the wrong WEP key.<br /><br />Bottom line, updates are necessary for security and often do improve functionality, but more often than not, when I update I find myself hacking/fixing something to get back to 'normal'.<br /><br />This will have no impact on my reaction to the next shiny update though.  I will still install immediately.<br /><br />Oh, and I still don't know yet whether any of this fixed my Excel 2007 scroll problem.  We'll see.
