---
title: "Joining the online revolution"
date: 2007-01-29T22:58:00Z
url: /2007/01/joining-online-revolution.html
draft: false
---

I've been a bit of a skeptic when it came to embracing hosted services.  I could setup and run my own email server, web server, etc. and didn't see the need or justification to pay someone else to do it.  In fact, I actually wrote my own <a href="http://www.ericdaugherty.com/java/mailserver">Java Email Server</a>. <br /><br />However, as I look back of the last couple of months, I've moved to a much greater dependence online services.<br /><br />I moved my email and web servers from my own hosted box to a hosting provider.  The services offered are so cost effective that it isn't worth the time or hassle of worrying about maintaining it.  But hosting was just the beginning.<br /><br />In addition to moving to hosted services, I've also moved to online applications.  I was a big user of <a href="http://www.sharpreader.net/">SharpReader</a>, a RSS reader written in C# (hence the name).  I looked at <a href="http://www.bloglines.com/">Bloglines</a> a long time ago, as well as <a href="http://www.google.com/reader">Google Reader</a> when it first came out.  Neither seemed that impressive, and being able to browse my feeds offline seemed appealing.  However, when Google Reader recently came out with an upgraded version I switched.  One key is the keyboard shortcuts (which bloglines has as well now).  Another big reason I like it is the ability to view each post individually, something that I didn't see how to do on Bloglines (at least when I looked initially).<br /><br />Additionally, I also moved my email from Thunderbird to Google Mail.  I still maintain my email address (@ericdaugherty.com), but the emails all get forwarded to my gmail account, and emails sent appear to come from my @ericdaugherty.com account.  The searching and labeling (tagging) have reduced my need (and time) to organize my emails into folders, which is liberating (although a bit of a leap of faith initially).  And the spam filtering is great (although I have had one false positive, which is worrying).<br /><br />Overall, I'm extremely happy with the new arrangements.  I think when you boil it down, there are really two reasons it works for me.<br /><br />1. Keyboard Shortcuts.  I can navigate gmail and Google Reader entirely from the keyboard.<br />2. Ubiquitous network access.  WiFi is nearly everywhere, and where there is no WiFi, I can use my cell phone as a modem.  This works great on Metra, allowing me to read email and rss anywhere.<br /><br />An honorable mention goes to the gmail interface on the Treo, which provides better access than the POP client I used for my old email.  There is also an Google Reader site optimized for the Treo, although I don't find myself using that very often.<br /><br />A second honorable mention goes to Google Desktop, and the integration of my gmail search with my desktop search (something I had with Thunderbird).<br /><br />I've even played with <a href="http://docs.google.com/">Google's Docs & Spreadsheets</a> application.  For a lot of simple uses, it is good enough to use over Excel and Word.  It is certainly slower, although having access to it anywhere is nice.  The one use I really found useful was sharing the document with a colleague and both editing it simultaneously, something that is not easily reproducible in Excel.  It isn't a Office killer yet, but the potential is there.<br /><br />All in all, I'm very happy with this arrangement, and will be much more willing to look at hosted solutions for other applications.
