---
title: "Rails on GoDaddy"
date: 2007-07-31T04:14:00Z
url: /2007/07/rails-on-godaddy.html
draft: false
---

I decided to play with Ruby on Rails a little more and was just reminded of the painful process to get Rails working at GoDaddy.<br /><br />First, you can have Java or Rails, but not both.  But as I <a href="http://www.ericdaugherty.com/blog/2007/05/guice-burned-by-godaddy.html">posted earlier</a>, Java is near useless at GoDaddy anyway.<br /><br />So, the key steps to getting your Ruby on Rails app deployed at GoDaddy are:<br /><br /><span style="font-size:100%;">Setup at GoDaddy:</span><br /><span style="font-size:100%;">1. Log in to the GoDaddy Hosting Control Center</span><br />2. Make sure Java is disabled (under Language Options).  If it is enabled, you can't deploy a Rails application.  Change the setting to none (and you'll need to wait 24 hours for your site(s) to be moved to a new server).<br />3. Log into the CGI control panel and create a Rails application directory.<br />4. Create a symbolic link to your newly created rails directory.<br /><br />Local Edits:<br />1. Freeze your gems: `rake rails:freeze:gems`<br />2. Edit your dispatch.* files to reference #!/usr/local/bin/ruby<br /><br />Upload:<br />1. Upload your rails application to the rails directory.<br />2. Chmod the dispatch.* files to 755 (in <a href="http://sourceforge.net/projects/filezilla">FileZilla</a>, right click and select File Attributes).<br />3. Wait.  GoDaddy won't recognized new .htaccess files for about an hour, so go do something else and come back later.<br /><br />Test:<br />1. Test your app.  Hopefully it works.  If not, good luck.  A couple things you can try:<br />1a. Enable your Error Log in the hosting control panel, wait an hour, try again and view your log file in the CGI control panel. <br />1b. Download the <rails>/log/production.log log file.<br />2. Change to FastCGI.  Update your .htaccess file and change the dispatch.cgi reference to dispatch.fcgi.<br /><br />I omitted the DB setup.  You'll need to create a database using the control panel and update your database.yml file with the appropriate information.<br /><br />It isn't great, but if you already have GoDaddy hosting, it is workable.
