---
title: "Java Email Server (JES) Eclipse Plugin"
date: 2009-06-06T02:05:00Z
url: /2009/06/java-email-server-jes-eclipse-plugin.html
draft: false
---

<blockquote></blockquote>There has been a flurry of activity on the Java Email Server front recently.  A beta release of JES 2.0 is imminent, but today I'm announcing the availability of an <a href="http://jesplug-in.sourceforge.net/">Eclipse Pluign for JES</a>.<div><br /></div><div>An Eclipse plugin?  Isn't JES an email server?  Yep.  Here is the introduction from the project page:<br /><blockquote>Suppose that you developed a service in your application that send mails to clients (confirmation, cancellation, alert, etc...) and you want to test it and view the layouts of theses mails? Most probably, you will use your enterprise mail server and your professional account as test account.</blockquote><blockquote>But wasting long time waiting to receive test mails? connection problems? want to test cc or bcc? your professional mail account is full of test mails? this plug-in can help, it launch a local instance of JES mail server for test use, no installation is needed, easy to configure and provide accounts management (you can add as many accounts as you want).</blockquote>The project, <a href="http://jesplug-in.sourceforge.net/">JES email server launcher Eclipse plug-in</a>, or <a href="http://jesplug-in.sourceforge.net/">jesplugin-in</a>, was written by Nabil Dridi.  Nabil is a developer from Tunisia, further expanding the list of countries that have helped grow JES.  Thanks to Nabil and all the others who have helped out over the years!</div><div><br /></div><div>Nabil has done a great job putting this plugin together I and recommend it for anyone using JES as a development resource.  Give it a try!</div>
