---
title: "Eating Crow"
date: 2009-09-09T19:03:00.002Z
url: /2009/09/eating-crow.html
draft: false
---

After holding out for years, and picking the Palm <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_0">Pre</span> as my 'next phone', it is time for me to <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eating_crow">Eat Crow</a>.<div><br /></div><div>Last weak I broke down and bought a brand new black iPhone 3GS.  And I love it.</div><div><br /></div><div>Two years ago, when the first iPhone came out, I wrote the post '<a href="http://www.ericdaugherty.com/blog/2007/02/no-iphone-for-me.html">No iPhone for Me</a>'.  Re-reading that post now, I think my criticisms were mostly fair, and have been mostly <span class="blsp-spelling-corrected" id="SPELLING_ERROR_1">resolved</span>.  My primary issues were:</div><div><ul><li>Price ($499 and $599)</li><li>No Removable Battery</li><li>Touchscreen Keyboard</li><li>EDGE (no 3G)</li></ul><div>I wrapped up the post with the following: "<i>However, even if the <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_2">iPhone's</span> first version does fail, it is hardly down for the count. Apple can and will innovate, and with their existing <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_3">iPod</span> market domination, they will have several chances to make this concept successful. I'll be tracking how this develops (from my <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_4">Treo</span>).</i>"  Apple did use subsequent releases (OS and Hardware) to make it successful.  The addition of 3G and the price drops were major <span class="blsp-spelling-corrected" id="SPELLING_ERROR_5">improvements</span>, and directly addressed half of my concerns.  I've come to accept the keyboard as an acceptable option.  I'm not convinced about the built in battery, but it is clearly the direction Apple is moving, with their laptops now as well.  And the built in battery provides a fit and finish that is impossible with removable battery devices.  But it was the App Store, with all its drama, that made the device a HUGE success.</div><div><br /></div><div>As I become more and more <a href="http://www.ericdaugherty.com/blog/2009/06/fed-up-with-my-treo-755p.html">fed up with my <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_6">Treo</span></a>, I explored my upgrade options.  There was the Palm <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_7">Pre</span>, <span class="blsp-spelling-corrected" id="SPELLING_ERROR_8">Blackberry</span> Devices, Android, and Windows Mobile.  I'd tried Windows Mobile and had no desire to go back.  <span class="blsp-spelling-corrected" id="SPELLING_ERROR_9">Blackberries</span> also held no <span class="blsp-spelling-corrected" id="SPELLING_ERROR_10">allure</span>.  They are very business focused, and the iPhone and <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_11">Pre</span> both provide better balance.  In the end, it was the market share (Apps, general <span class="blsp-spelling-corrected" id="SPELLING_ERROR_12">mind share</span>) that convinced my to choose the iPhone.  My wife has one and loves it, and while I think the <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_13">Pre</span> is a great device, I'm not willing to make a 2 year (wireless contract) bet on it.</div><div><br /></div><div>After a week of use, here are my thoughts:</div><div><ul><li>The touch keyboard works.  I don't LOVE it, but it works.</li><li>The navigation is less efficient than my <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_14">Treo</span>, but it is a small trade-off given the other benefits.</li><li>The integration of the <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_15">iPod</span> functionality is great.</li><li>The Exchange support is great.</li><li>The battery is OK.</li><li>Safari is great.  I'm actually using Safari for GMail instead of the Mail app for now.</li><li>Google Reader on Safari is great.</li><li>Apps, Apps, Apps.</li></ul><div>I realize I'm a late comer to the party, but I'm going with the idea that I waited until the iPhone was ready for me.  Either way, I'm glad I made the switch.</div><div><br /></div></div></div>
