---
title: "Fed up with my Treo 755p"
date: 2009-06-03T12:56:00Z
url: /2009/06/fed-up-with-my-treo-755p.html
draft: false
---

I'm done.<div><br /></div><div>I've been a user of Palm OS devices for over a decade now, and I'm fed up.  My current phone, the Treo 755p is annoying me on a near-daily basis.</div><div><br /></div><div>I've been a huge fan of the Palm OS for years.  Their early devices were groundbreaking (I started with the Palm Personal, and loved the Palm V).  They enabled me to track my personal information and provided a platform for applications (OK, games).  </div><div><br /></div><div>I loved the evolution to the Treo line.  Is started with the Treo 300, and I owned the 600, 650, and now 755p.  For a brief moment I had a Samsung i760 but quickly fled back to the 755p.  I missed the ease of use and simplicity of the Treo form factor and UI.</div><div><br /></div><div>But the OS and hardware line has gone on too long.  My phone crashes too often, I spent 10 minutes this morning figuring out why my headset unpaired from my Treo, and I'm tired of having a sub-par web browser.  And when did Palm, the king of 3rd party apps, become a developer wasteland?  Yes, I know, when the iPhone was released.  I even wrote my own <a href="http://www.ericdaugherty.com/java/palm/trainschedule/">Palm applications</a> back in the Palm V days.</div><div><br /></div><div>Anyway, I'm done.  I need to move to a new phone.  Windows Mobile phones are out of the picture.  They are just too big of a departure from the usability of Palm devices that I believe is critical.  The iPhone does beckon, as it has huge 3rd party support, a great browser and screen, and integrates with Outlook's Active Sync.  The other option is the Palm Pre.  As a long time Palm fan I'm very hopeful that the Pre will reignite the Palm brand and yield another decade of great devices.  The early reviews are solid but not overwhelming.  It is version 1 of a new OS.  As a long time fan of a physical keyboard the Pre does seem to be an ideal solution.</div><div><br /></div><div>I'm also under contract with Verizon, and neither of my options is available on their network today.  There are rumors of the Pre at the end of the year and even rumors of an iPhone on Verizon in the future.  It will be an interesting week as the Pre launches Saturday and Apple's WWDC takes place next week.</div><div><br /></div><div>We'll see what shakes out in the next week or so, and then I'll finalize my migration plans.</div>
