---
title: "iTunes Export 2.2.0 Released"
date: 2010-01-20T02:38:00.002Z
url: /2010/01/itunes-export-220-released.html
draft: false
---

The 2.2.0 release features updates and bug fixes to the console and GUI versions<br /><br />In both versions:<br /><ul><li>Added option to exclude 'Built In' playlists, including Music, Library, Genius, Movies, etc.</li></ul>For the GUI version:<br /><ul><li>Added auto-update functionality.  Checks for a new version every 7 days.  Can be disabled in the 'About' window.</li><li>Resolved issue where Finish button causes error on 'Select Playlist' screen.  Finish button is now disabled on this screen.</li><li>Added option to 'About' screen to change between languages.  English and French currently supported.</li><li>Improved French translation.  Thanks to MrDNA  (mrdna@laposte.net) for doing the translation.<br /></li></ul>For the Console version:<br /><ul><li>Fixed issue with XML validation.  This version no longer attempts to validate the XML file (required downloading DTD from apple).</li><li>Fixed issue where spaces were being converted to underscores in playlist names.<br /></li></ul>The new version can be downloaded from the project homepage: <a href="http://www.ericdaugherty.com/dev/itunesexport/">http://www.ericdaugherty.com/dev/itunesexport/</a><br /><br />I have received several feature requests that I am still working on, and will try to get a new release out soon.  However, there is enough here to justify a release now.<br /><br />If you find any issues or have questions please email me (eric@ericdaugherty.com). Please include which application and version (GUI or Console, 2.2.0 etc.) of iTunes Export and the operating system you are using.
